Welcome back.
And we've seen quite a bit that we can do with canvas in the previous lessons and what if you actually
want to upload an image into canvas so from your computer into your canvas element on your web page
and then of course if this was on an actual Web site uploading it from your computer to there as well
and then having it displayed within your your web page.
And in this lesson I'll show you how to do that.
So first thing that we need to do is we need to set up some inputs and this input is going to be a type
file so that we can grab a file and we'll give it an ID of G load.
So it's actually going to give us the ability to upload an image.
And now comes the Javascript.
So what I want to do is I want to add an event listener for whenever we've got an image that we've selected
here.
So we want to use the change event listener.
So I want you to pause the video create this input and add an event listener.
So whenever the content of that file changes it's going to fire off this event listener.
This is going back to javascript and the listeners and it changes the one that we're looking for.
So go ahead and add that in and create a function that's going to fire off whenever we make a change
to our file input.
So if you had an opportunity to give that to set that up and say the solution coming up so I am g loader
so the image Lowder's going to give it a variable.
And this one is what we've done many times before so get element by id grabbing that elements so I am
g loader so grab that element and placing it within the IMJ loader variable object next that we want
to do was add an event listener.
So I m g loader and let's do it this one out of the listener.
So we're going to listen for on change and whenever it changes then we're going to update the image
up image.
So it just create you image and we're going to set that listener and the other thing that we need to
do is grab our canvas.
So we saw earlier we're going to do the same thing that we did earlier.
So let's set up a variable and you don't always have to call it canvas.
Just get in the habit of calling it canvas so you can actually refer to it as needed.
So it never actually makes sense.
So canvas so grabbing that canvas and variable so the contacts so I usually use CTX but you can use
context or any other variable that makes sense.
So can this get
context and so we're grabbing the context so we know that we can draw 2D images within that canvas area.
That's the CTX so setting up that context and I remove the spacing there.
So next to that we need to do is create a function so this function is called you image.
So basically for uploading the image so you can call it up image so that the name has a little bit more
meaning there.
And we need to pick up that newly updated content.
So first of all we need a file reader so we saw that earlier where we've got our reader and we can create
a new object file reader and this basically gives us the ability to read file contents and we're going
to need this in order to update our image because we need to grab the contents of the file and we know
that the file reader has few built in functions so we've got one that's called on load and so whenever
that on loads then let's fire off the function.
So build that on load and that's actually one of the thing that we need to do we need to read the read
as data you are l.
So this is the same thing that we saw earlier.
And basically it allows us to read the contents of a specific specified blob producing a data.
You are this is the same thing we saw when we were outputting our canvas item that we can do read data
as you are as well.
So basically it's going to turn that uploaded information from the target
and it's going to turn.
So that's files and we're only an upload.
The first one.
So even if they select more than one will only grab that first one.
So basically what we're doing is we're turning that into a readable image format and then we could utilize
that within our canvas.
So we know once it finishes loading.
So let's do a console log here and we'll log out the value so let's select a value.
Open up our console and we see that we've got this result data image.
And this is exactly what we need in this.
This is exactly what we need in order to output it with him canvas in a readable format.
So the next thing that we need to do within the onload.
So we know that that image has loaded slut's load variable image and let's create a brand new image
object and then this brand new image object we can simply draw onto the canvas.
We've got to make sure that it loads just as the file reader loaded.
We need to make sure that this loads as well.
So again anonymous function here.
And once it's loaded then we're actually ready to update this into into our draw image and we know that
from looking at the source we know that the image source of this brand new image source that we've created
is within that target.
So we saw that we're putting that event target and we're outputting the result value.
So the result was were that 64 image was actually sitting.
And the next thing that we need to do is simply output it into our canvas using draw image and let's
add that image and then all we need to do is elect x and y position.
So let's try that.
Let's refresh it and grab an image and we can see that our image gets positioned within our canvas element.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and take what we learned earlier and add the word javascript
course at the bottom of your uploaded image.
So go ahead puzzle video and add that in to the application.
And we know that we should add that in whenever the new image is uploaded.
And we saw that we could do the CTX we could draw an image and we know that in order to create we use
filled text.
So great pause the video and add that in and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you have an opportunity to try that out.
So first thing that we do we want to set a font.
Now you don't have to set a font size but you like to have a nice big font and we can use the aerial
font so that it really shows up on top of that image.
Really nice and big next to CTX and let's do Phil text.
And this was the method where we can pass in some information and we want to add in javascript course.
So anytime we upload an image we're going to write on top of it javascript course and we can also specify
where we want to position that so we could position at the bottom we can position at the top.
So let's try let's do X of 10 and we'll do y of 100.
So let's try that.
So refreshed.
Grab an image upload that image.
And there you go.
So we have writing javascript course on top of the image and you can do quite a bit more as well.
If you want there's another thing that we can do as well to this uploaded image.
We can also update the size of our canvas in order to accommodate that.
So let's take care of that as well.
So let me show you how to do that.
So over here where we've loaded the image before we draw it we're going to take the canvas with and
we saw that this is actually something that we can reset and we can dynamically set.
So we can take whatever the width of the images canvas height and we can take whatever the height of
the newly updated image and we can update that.
So let's let's try that one more time.
And we notice that we've got the default canvas size but whenever we select an image and upload it that
we get that new size being attached to it.
So go in and try that within your own editor and see what different things that you can make happen
when you upload images using javascript and canvas together.